# Vocabulary
- **buffer** - temporary memory area

# Static Variables
- Allocates storage for a variable permanently, similar to a file-scope variable, even if the declaration is within a function.
- **File-scope variable** 
	 - a variable that is not inside a function declaration but at the top-level of the file. 
	 - Loading a program allocates the storage for all the file-scope variables in it, and initializes them too.
```
static t_list   *list; //tentative definition
			VS
static t_list   *list;
list = NULL;
			VS
static t_list   *list[OPEN_MAX]; //not a tentative definition
```
- **1st method:** This a **tentative definition *(a declaration without an initial value)***, it will be converted into a **complete definition (static will auto initialize it to NULL if not value is provided)**, then each function invocation will be in a persistent state since the declaration and initialization is technically combined together. Allowing the variable to continue reading from where it left off from the first function call.

- **2nd method:** If written in the second way, every time the function is called, the state of the list will be reset to NULL for every function invocation, meaning whatever was stored previously as the buffer will be emptied. This occurs as the declaration and initialization was seperated.

- **3rd method:** This is a complete definition, this will persist the state of the list variable in each function invocation.

- 10240 - soft limit of file descriptors opened for MacOS, 4096 is for linux systems, using OPEN_MAX from limits.h library (only works for MacOS)

# File descriptors (fd AKA file handles in Windows)
- a number that uniquely identifies an open file in a computer's OS. A mechanism representing the connection between your program and the file
- File descriptors are represented as objects of type `int`

| File Descriptor (fd) | Description                                                                               | Abbreviation |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 0                    | default data stream for input (eg: keyboard input in terminal)                            | stdin        |
| 1                    | default data stream for output (eg: user's screen)                                        | stdout       |
| 2                    | default data stream for output relating to errors (eg: user's screen, maybe blue screen?) | stderr       |
- Example: if `find / -name "a_file"` is successful, output goes to `stdout fd 1`, if error it goes to `stderr fd 2`

## fd vs fptr
- **fd (type `int`)** 
	- unbuffered I/O
	- low-level
	- uses open() from the <unistd.h> <fcntl.h> POSIX standard ***(Portable Operating System Interface) is a set of standard OS interfaces based on the Unix operating system)***, returns `-1` on failure, else returns an `int` representing the opened file
	- used for direct system calls, interacts directly with the kernel, giving more control but require more careful handling *(**kernel** - a computer program at the core of a computer's OS, generally has complete control over everything (similar to a seed in a hard shell))*
- **fptr** (type `FILE *`)
	- buffered I/O
	- high-level
	- uses fopen() from <stdio.h> C standard library, returns `NULL` on failure, and can use `ferror` and `feof` to check, else returns a file pointer type `FILE *`
	- supports formatted I/O (such as fprintf, fscanf), which can improve performance by minimizing system calls, but may introduce latency