# Mandatory Part
- `./pipex file1 cmd1 cmd2 file2` should behave like `< file1 cmd1 | cmd2 > file2`

## Learning Process
**Example**:
	`grep a1 < infile | wc -w > outfile`
	`< infile grep a1 | wc -w > outfile`

`<` - input redirection
	`<` redirects the content of `infile` to the `standard input` so when `grep` reads from `standard input`, it gets the content of `infile`

`>` - output redirection
	writes the output of `wc -w` to `outfile`

## Flow
```
cmd 1 < infile | cmd2 > outfile
-------|------- -------|-------
 read(pipe[0])   write(pipe[1])
     child           parent

Child process: 
1. dup2 'infile_fd' to 'stdin' to get the conditions/variables for 'cmd1' to run, represented by '<'
2. dup2 'pipe[1]' to 'stdout' to pass the output of 'cmd1' to the next process
3. execute cmd1

Parent process:
1. dup2 'pipe[0]' to 'stdin' to receive the output of 'cmd1'
2. dup2 'outfile_fd' to 'stdout' to save the output of 'cmd2' in outfile
3. execute cmd2
```

# Issues Encountered
### 1.  Edge case `< /dev/urandom cat | head -1 > test.txt`
```sh
EXAMPLE 1:
if (pid1 == 0) 
	child_process(argv, envp, fd); 
waitpid(pid1, NULL, 0); 
parent_process(argv, envp, fd); 

EXAMPLE 2:
if (pid1 == 0) 
	child_process(argv, envp, fd); 
parent_process(argv, envp, fd); 
waitpid(pid1, NULL, 0);
```

EXAMPLE 1 -- WILL TIMEOUT, since cat /dev/urandom never ends, head -1 is what signals it to end but the parent_process never runs since its forevery waiting for the child process to finish

EXAMPLE 2 -- WILL EXECUTE NORMALLY, since head -1 is detected first, `open()` will also wait for the input pipe to be received. Pipes and the open() function are Blocking I/O, the process must wait until data has been received before continuing execution
	
### 2. Empty Env
### 3. Absolute path cmd
### 4. Zombies
# Bonus Part
`>>` - difference between `>` is instead of rewriting the file, it appends the output to the EOF

`<<` - difference between `<` is it will stop reading from `standard input` when it encounters a `LIMITER`

# References
https://github.com/gabcollet/pipex (careful waitpid position causing fail in unit test 31)
https://github.com/vfurmane/pipex-tester (Basic unit test for mandatory, handles edge cases well)
https://github.com/bastienkody/pipex_tester (Very comprehensive)

# Functions used
## `int access(const char *pathname, int mode)`
- **`int mode`**: This specifies the accessibility check to be performed. It can be one or more of the following flags combined using the bitwise OR operator (`|`):
    
    - `R_OK`: Check for read permission.
    - `W_OK`: Check for write permission.
    - `X_OK`: Check for execute permission.
    - `F_OK`: Check for the existence of the file.
- Return Values
	- `0` if allowed
	- `-1` if not allowed, and sets `errno` to indicate error

## `int dup2(int oldfd, int newfd);`
- return value
	- `0` if allowed
	- `-1` if error
### Why Use `dup2()`?

You cannot simply use a normal integer variable to swap file descriptors for a few reasons:

1. **File descriptors are system resources**, managed by the operating system. They are not just simple integers that you can freely manipulate.
2. **Each file descriptor has associated state**, such as the file offset, file status flags, and other metadata. Simply copying the integer value does not copy this state.
3. **The operating system has a limited number of file descriptors** available per process. Directly assigning an integer may result in conflicts or errors if the new descriptor is already in use.

The `dup2()` function allows you to safely create a copy of a file descriptor, ensuring that the new descriptor refers to the same open file description and inherits the same state as the original. It also handles closing the new descriptor if necessary to avoid conflicts.

```
#include <unistd.h>
#include <fcntl.h>

int main(int ac, char *av[], char *env[])
{
    (void) ac;
    (void) av;
    int in;
    int out;
    char *grep_args[] = {"grep", "Lausanne", NULL};
    
    // open input and output files (assuming both files exist)
    in = open("in", O_RDONLY);
    out = open("out", O_WRONLY); 
    
    // replace standard input with input file
    dup2(in, 0);
    // close unused file descriptors
    close(in);
    close(out);
    
    // execute grep
    execve("grep", grep_args, env);
}
```
## `pid_t fork(void);`
- creates a new process by duplicating the calling process. 
- the calling process is referred to as `parent`
- the new process is referred to as `child`
- return value
	- On success, the PID of the child process is returned in the parent, and `0` is returned in the child. 
	- On failure, `-1` is returned in the parent, no child process is created, and `_errno_` is set appropriately.
- Visualization
```
Parent Process             Child Process
---------------             ---------------
int main() {                
  // some code              
  pid = fork(); -----------> int main() {  // (conceptually)
  if (pid == 0) {             // some code
    // child code              pid = fork();
  } else {                     if (pid == 0) {
    // parent code               // child code
  }                            } else {
}                                // parent code
                               }
                             }
```
## `int pipe(int pipefd[2]);`
- The array `pipefd` is used to return two file descriptors referring to the ends of the pipe.
	- `pipefd[0]` refers to the read end of the pipe.
	- `pipefd[1]` refers to the write end of the pipe.
- Data written to the write end of the pipe is buffered by the kernel until it is read from the read end of the pipe
- Return Values
	- `0` if allowed
	- `-1` if not allowed, and sets `errno` to indicate error
## `pid_t wait(int *status);`
- suspends execution of the calling process until one of its children terminates
	- A state change is considered to be: 
		- the child terminated; 
		- the child was stopped by a signal; 
		- the child was resumed by a signal.
	- In the case of a terminated child, performing a wait allows the system to release the resources associated with the child; if a wait is not performed, then the terminated child remains in a "zombie" state
- _wait(&status)_ *== waitpid(-1, &status, 0)*;
- Return Value
	- on success, returns the process ID of the terminated child; 
	- on error, -1 is returned.
## `pid_t waitpid(pid_t pid, int *status, int options);`
- By default, `waitpid()` waits only for terminated children.
- suspends execution of the calling process until a child specified by _pid_ argument has changed state.
	- The value of _pid_ can be:
		`< -1`
		- meaning wait for any child process whose process group ID is equal to the absolute value of _pid_.
		`-1`
		- meaning wait for any child process.
		`0`
		- meaning wait for any child process whose process group ID is equal to that of the calling process.
		`\> 0`
		- meaning wait for the child whose process ID is equal to the value of _pid_.
- Return Value
	- on success, returns the process ID of the child whose state has changed; 
	- if **WNOHANG** was specified and one or more child(ren) specified by _pid_ exist, but have not yet changed state, then 0 is returned. 
	- On error, -1 is returned.
## `int execve(const char *filename, char *const argv[], char *const envp[]);`
- executes the program pointed to by `filename`
- execve() does not return on succes, the calling process is **replaced** by the executed `filename`
## `int unlink(const char *pathname);`
- deletes a name from the file system
- If that name was the last link to a file:
	- no processes have the file open, the file is deleted and the space it was using is made available for reuse.
	- any processes still have the file open, the file will remain in existence until the last file descriptor referring to it is closed.
- Return Values
	- `0` if allowed
	- `-1` if not allowed, and sets `errno` to indicate error
